# About the authors

## Karina Varela

**About her:** Karina M. Varela has experienced more than ten years on I.T., working in roles like application developer, software architect, consultant, tech lead, and product marketing management. With a solid background in software development, she has professional expertise in planning, architecting, delivering, and troubleshooting critical software in enterprise environments of different sectors around the world. By the time of 2020, Karina is working with the Application Services Business Unit in Red Hat, as a Principal Technical Marketing Manager, an expert on the matter of cloud native development. She's a member of the SouJava community, and passionate for helping the communities and especially fond of open-source projects and initiatives. Another hobby is to speak at conferences, therefore, she presented in conferences like Campus Party, TDC, and Women Who Code.

## Otávio Santana

**About him:** Empowering developers worldwide to deliver better software faster, scalable in the Cloud. Otavio is a passionate software engineer focused on Cloud and Java technology. He has experience mainly in persistence polyglot and high-performance applications in finances, social media, and e-commerce. Otavio is a member of both Expert Groups and Expert Leader in several JSRs and JCP executive committees. He is working on several Apache and Eclipse Foundation projects such as Apache Tamaya, MicroProfile, Jakarta EE, where he is leading the first specification at Jakarta EE with Jakarta NoSQL. A JUG leader and global speaker at JavaOne and Devoxx conferences. Otavio has received recognition for his OSS contributions such as the JCP Outstanding Award, Member of the year and innovative JSR, Duke’s Choice Award, and Java Champion Award, to name a few.
